FLEXI-PRICING IN THE INDIAN RAILWAYS: IMPACT ON REVENUES
Sushmita V Gopalan
In September 2016, the Indian Railways introduced ‘flexi-pricing’ in the sale of passenger train tickets, in an effort to increase revenues. This decision was made in the context of criticisms that the state-owned and run enterprise was only recovering 51% of its costs through ticket sales. For every 10% of tickets sold, fares now increase by 10%, up to a maximum of 1.5 times the base fare. 
At present, the new pricing rules have only been applied to 142 ‘luxury trains’- 4.4% of all passenger trains, affecting around 0.15 million passengers each day. The Ministry of Railways intends to roll this out in a phased manner, expanding first to long-distance express trains and then to the slower, lower-cost mail trains. A decision on whether to expand the policy is to be taken after evaluating the implications of the change over the course of the first year of its implementation.
Using ticket sales data over a 9-month period, I’m interested in measuring the actual impact of flexi-pricing on revenues from ticket sales. 
METHODOLOGY
The fact that the flexi-price policy is being rolled out in phases creates the right circumstances for a natural experiment approach, where similar trains which remain static-priced serve as a control group for comparison.  
Typically, for every ‘luxury’ train between two destinations, there exist at least three regular express or mail options. For example, Hyderabad and Bangalore are connected by seven trains, of which two fall under the ‘luxury’ category. On non-luxury trains, about a fourth of the coaches are air-conditioned (AC), offer similar comforts and priced comparably to luxury trains.
We can, therefore, treat luxury trains and the AC coaches of regular trains as two services that are virtually identical and now differ only in whether or not they are flexi-priced or static-priced. Along with the fact that data on ticket sales is always recorded by default, i.e., ‘always on’, this gives us a natural experiment. Further, matching can be used to link specific trains that are flexi-priced with a static-price train traversing the same route to increase statistical power. 
Only measuring revenues before and after the change in pricing would be useful only to a limited extend – without a detailed analysis on the sources of the change in revenue – it would be difficult to declare the pilot successful and extend it to all trains. If there is an increase change in revenue is only from increased demand and ticket sales in static-priced trains after their alternatives become flexi-priced, extending flexi-pricing to all trains would not be the right next step. 

DATASET
The Indian Railways provides an HTTP- based API for ‘non-commercial usage’ of data. Given a Passenger Name Record (PNR) as input, it supplies JSON-encoded information on date of journey, date of booking, coach, boarding and disembarking stations, comprehensive details on the train and whether the ticket was purchased online or not. Information is also available on whether or not the ticket was booked online, along with the age and gender of the travellers. Given the list of trains under the flexi-price policy and the date of booking, we will be able to calculate the exact fare paid by a passenger for their ticket, assuming there are no missing records in the data. 
With the aid of Matthew Salganik’s (2017) framework for analyzing a big dataset, I explore below some of the characteristics relevant to the data I propose to use for this study. 
	Size: The Indian Railways carry an average of 23 million passengers a day, with 0.15 million travelling on flexi-price trains. Over the course of a year, this would generate roughly 54 million data points for passengers in flexi-price trains and about half as many in the AC coaches of static-priced trains. This would certainly generate a very long, big dataset that could help us draw inferences that are not biased by seasonal fluctuations. It would also allow us to look at changes in behaviour between specific subsets such as passengers who booked tickets online versus those who booked at the railway station.
Always-on: The Railways Board always stores records of every single ticket booked – this data is ‘always-on’. Past ticket sales records allow us to directly observe and understand behaviour before the new pricing policy was introduced.
Non-reactive: The dataset is non-reactive because there is no reason to believe that passengers booking tickets would alter their behaviour simply because records were maintained of each ticket booked. 
Accessible: As described above, the Indian Railways provides an interface from which the dataset I propose to use for this analysis can be drawn. 
Incomplete: One missing piece of information in this dataset is an Indian Railways account username associated with each ticket booked online or the name of the traveller on the ticket that could enable to actually trace the change in behaviour of individuals after the change in pricing. Either this or the government-issued identification number you are required to submit at the time of booking could have also allowed us to link records with low-cost airlines to see if a substitution effect could be observed. 
An aspect of the question this dataset doesn’t address is whether flexi-pricing is causing consumers to substitute train travel with another mode of transport. For instance, if revenues were falling because travellers were opting out of the railway system altogether and choosing to travel on low-cost airlines with similar but more predictable fares instead, that would influence the Railway Board’s decision on whether to extend the policy or not.
Non-representative: At the moment, this dataset and analysis can only shed light on the response of consumers of high-end rail travel to a shift to dynamic pricing. It would be problematic to generalize inferences drawn to consumer patterns in other income categories. 
Sensitive: Without usernames or the names of individual travellers, the dataset or its public availability does not pose any easily foreseen threats to the individuals whose behaviour is being observed. 
The dataset described here displays several of the characteristics of good big data outlined by Salganik (2017) – it is sufficiently big, non-reactive, always-on, accessible and not particularly sensitive. 
Going forward, a logical extension to this research would be to extend it to understand the impact of flexi-pricing on consumer surplus. As Cohen, et al. (2016) do with data from Uber, a ride-sharing service, it would be highly value to get data from the Indian Railways website on customers who look up the prices of a certain ticket and then decide not to purchase it. Along with data on tickets that they do buy, this could help us estimate their demand and various price-points, compute price elasticity and measure consumer surplus. 
REFERENCES
[1] Cohen, Peter, Robert Hahn, Steven Levitt Jonathan Hall, and Robert Metcalfe. “Using Big Data to Estimate Consumer Surplus: The Case of Uber.” National Bureau of Economic Research No. w22627 (2016).
[2] Salganik, Matthew J. Bit by Bit: Social Research in the Digital Age. Open review edition. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2017.
